Okay,
guys,
Um,
welcome back now,
In the last lecture,
we looked at how to programmatically openwork books on.
We looked at a different the different ways that you can open workbook so you can have them
open read only so they do.
Or they don't update the most recently used list on also here to open password protected
workbooks.
And then we can have a look at how close workbook.
So we have a few lines of code.
Here s so what I'm gonna do,
I have here Book one Open.
So Book One is the active workbook.
So to close a workbook,
simply literally.
All you have to do is type active workbook,
Doc.
Close on.
Notice what happens to book one over.
Here they go.
Book one is closed.
Nice and simple on.
Now.
I'm gonna rent these out so we can get to each of the individual bits of code.
Now we looked at earlier at the index number of the workbook,
the indexes,
the order in which you opened your workbooks.
So if you open my macro book first,
that will have an index number of one.
If you open book one second,
that will have an index number of number two.
I really wouldn't recommend closing a workbook by index number,
but just included it here for completeness.
No.
Okay,
now we're into the slightly clever stuff.
This workbook dot clothes simple line of code will work perfectly.
No,
if you haven't made any changes,
it will just close.
If you have made changes,
then it's not gonna close immediately.
You're going to get that little pop up that says,
Do you want to save your changes Will weaken bypass that by specifying a parameter.
And here we have active workbook close space.
The parameter save changes equals true.
So where if here,
whatever random text is in this cell,
I have no made a change to book one now.
Notice what?
Actually,
let's let's come back and let's have a look of that code.
So I've made a change.
And if I try to execute this code,
I get this message prop up.
Do you want to save?
Do you not want safe?
So that can be annoying,
particularly if you want this all happen automatically.
So this is where this bit of code comes in.
Active work booked up,
close save changes true on notice.
What happens when their faith through that one,
it just closes on it saves the changes now,
conversely,
we may not want to save the changes,
and we may not want to give the use of the option to save the changes.
So if they just type some random Texan here,
we have now made a change.
But if I f a through this one,
the workbook is just going to close.
And if I reopen it,
you can see that the changes have not Bean saved.
Okay,
guys,
at the time of recording,
that's just about all we have in some of the basics.
And now you have loads of individual lines of code that will teach you the structure to do
what you need to do now,
Really,
you can probably piece together an awful lot of the things that you're gonna want to do,
using just the stuff in sub the basics.
If not,
they're certainly going to give you a steer ist of what you should be looking at on what
the structure is gonna bay.
Now we're gonna 45 what you have just learned in the next section the program's toolbox
where we're going to covering depth.
All of all about variables looping logical test in writing formulas in code message boxes,
input boxes.
And by the end of that section,
you are gonna have absolutely everything you need to program any project that you can
imagine.
OK,
I'll see you in the next section.